# INTRODUCTION

This stash contains JSON documents.

Each *%.array.json* file contains an array of JSON documents.

They can --and are partly meant to --be loaded into a database as tables (relational) or collections (MongoDB).

You could load all my JSON files about farming, botany and biology into one database or just one MongoDB collection,
or only those closely related to farming (crops, herbs).

Finally, you could load all my JSON files into one single database.

# Sources
## Sources for Nutrition:
- https://www.nia.nih.gov/health/vitamins-and-supplements/vitamins-and-minerals-older-adults
- https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002399.htm
- https://www.nhs.uk/conditions/vitamins-and-minerals/
## Health
- https://www.dentalhealth.org/dry-mouth

# Schemata

No schema-enforcement has been implemented as yet. (Go on reading, though.)

## Schema-Defining Files

Some schema are suggested in files containing templates, notably:
- templates.json
- botany.templates.json
- computing.templates.json

## Emergent Guidelines

Besides, the process of writing a database in such a flexible format (as JSON is) naturally results in the generations of schema and guidelines for representing information. Some of them:

- In an array holding strings, qualifications should be written in round brackets, as in `"green vegetables (such as peas)"`

- `["TOPIC", ["CHARACTERISTIC_1", "CHARACTERISTIC_2"...] ]`

- A difference is seen between an instance (an existing element of a class of beings) and an example (something contrived or created so as to illustrate a point)

- Terms, Names and Titles

- Differences:
```
{
  "difference": ["A", "B"...],
  "points": [],
  "see-also": []
}
```
Now, property *points* could be an array of 2-element subarrays, one subarray for each aspect.

- For code samples:
```
"examples": [
  {
    "comment" : "COMMENT",
    "code": [
      "LINE1",
      "LINE2"...
    ],
    "output": [OUTPUT]
  }
]
```

- ranges: `[min, max]` and `[min, typical, max]`

- amount: `[n, units]`, as in `[4, "m2"]`

- for nutrition, state how much (protein, fat, etc.) a given foodstuff has per 100 grams, usually in grams (g) or miligrams (mg)
DV (Daily Value) represents the recommended amounts of nutrients to consume or not exceed each day, primarily used on food and supplement labels. The %DV (Percent Daily Value) indicates how much a single serving of a food, or a given amount such as 100 grams, contributes to your daily intake of that nutrient.
Therefore, a single component should lool like `"calcium: [44, "mg", "3"]`, to mean there is 44 mg of calcium per 100mg, which is 3 percen of the daily recommended intake.



# Manipulating JSON through JavaScript

On the other hand, since JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation: why not handle them (arrays of JSON objects) through the JavaScript programming language? I am working on just that. Essentially, I produce an array A2 an array of objects A1 by chaining Array methods like this:
```
let A2 = A1.filter(PREDICATE).map(MAP_FUNCTION);
```
Filters and maps live in their same-named files: *filters.js* and *maps.js* respectively.

This line is tested and demonstrated through web page *js.assorted.html*, which processes the array defined in *assorted.array.js*.

(Files named like *FIELD.array.js* hold the declaration of an array of objects, such as `const assorted = [OBJ0, OBJ1...]` These files are generated by means of a `Makefile` rule.)

Now, in place of "assorted" you could substitute other names such as "computing", "antropologia" etc. so that, say *js.computing.html*, would be made to import and processes file *computing.array.js*


# Viewing and Consulting

You can view my %.json files in a text editor such as kate or notepad++.

Text editors usually have a syntax-highlighting feature,
which makes reading computer languages such as JSON much easier.

Additionally, you can consult and generally manipulate my %.json files through:
- `jq` (JSON query): a command line tool
- `couchdb`: a       JSON DataBase Management System (DBMS)
- `mongodb`: another JSON DataBase Management System (DBMS)
(All three are free of charge.)

(I use `jq` to check up on syntax. If I run `jq '.' FILE.array.json`, then any mistakes are pointed out plus the lines where they are found.)

# SPECIAL FILES

The latest JSON documents are defined in *assorted.array.json*.

It may hold non-compliant documents or half-finished ones.

JSON templates or schema are held in:
- *templates.json*
- *computing.templates.json*
- *botany.templates.json*
and so on


# ORDINARY FILES

These hold several JSON documents in an array each

## Farming and Biology Files
agricultura.array.json
biology.array.json
botany.terms.array.json
plant_families.array.json
plants.array.json
crops.array.json
herbs.array.json
farming.array.json

## Computing
computing.array.json
linux.array.json
programming.array.json
cpp.array.json

## Spanish
antropologia.array.json
politica.array.json
genero.array.json

## Other
buddhism.array.json
yoga.array.json


# TODOs

[ ] Functions producing/returning initializing code for C++

[ ] a collection/array of objects (in, say, *nutrients.array.json*) representing nutrients:
- recommended amounts
- deficiencies
- usefulness
- foodstuffs contributing them

[ ] change ARRAY_SUFFIX in Makefile from "_a" to "Array"
[ ] write Makefile rules to change specific names in templates for js-dynamic HTML pages

[ ] check up on *farming.crops.json*
[ ] check up on *crops.former.json*

[ ] Is *agricultura.array.json* compliant?

[ ] complete *plant_families.array.json* with all major plant families

[ ] move crops pecan (`"name": "pecan"`) and peanut (`"name": "peanut"`) into *farming.array.json* into *crops.array.json*

[ ] write a JavaScript `toHTMLNote(obj, hLevel=2)` after writing
[ ] `toHTMLTermNote( obj, hLevel=2)`
[ ] `toHTMLNameNote( obj, hLevel=2)`
[ ] `toHTMLTitleNote(obj, hLevel=2)`
[ ] `toHTMLCropNote( obj, hLevel=2)`

# Deviant Formats

Some files hold JSON documents in "deviant" formats, that is they do not adhere to an agreed structure because they were written a long time ago.

Some of them are:
- crops.array.json, which is being re-structured
- herbs.array.json
